---
title: "1. GCP Steps"
date: 2023-08-23T11:28:28+02:00
draft: false
icon: "code_blocks"
weight: 1

---

## GCP steps
For every steps, a simple google research will help you if you are lost or if you want to know more about a specific topic.

### Free credits
First, access the console 
[console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
If you don't have the free credits activated, it will prompt you to do it. FOlow the different steps.

{{< alert context="warning" text="A credit card will be required, it's only to check if you are human (you can trust google I guess), it will **NEVER** charge you, unless you choose to do so after your credit are exprired. " />}}

### Create a project 
On the top-left corner, a dropdown menu will allow you to see current project (Only First Project for now, if your account is new), and to create a project. Create one called `tf-gke` or whatever you want.

Now, a pop-up will appear, select the project. In the same dropdown you used to create the project you should now see `tf-gke`
Be aware that the project id will contains a random string at the end. For example `tf-gke-***`<br><br>
[📕 Documentation](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-projects)

### Connect gcloud SDK 
```bash
gcloud init 
```
It will prompt you to login with your google account. Then, it will ask you to select a project. Select the one you just created. In this case `tf-gke-***`

### Enable GCP Kubernetes API
{{< tabs tabTotal="2">}}
{{% tab tabName="Via CLI" %}}

```bash
gcloud services enable container.googleapis.com
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab tabName="Via GCP website" %}}
Search "Kubernetes Engine API" in the top search bar. 
Then, click on "Enable", it might take some time
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Zones and regions 
Depending on your localisation, you will have different zones and regions available. For example, I'm in France, so I have `europe-west1` and `europe-west3` available for regions and `europe-west1-b`, `europe-west1-c` and `europe-west1-d` for zones. 
To list all zones (and their regions) available for you, run the following command:
```bash
gcloud compute zones list
```
Update your project with the appropriate zone and region
```bash
gcloud compute project-info add-metadata \
   --metadata google-compute-default-region={REGION},google-compute-default-zone={ZONE}
```

{{< alert context="info" text="You can check your localisation with `gcloud config get-value compute/region` and `gcloud config get-value compute/zone`" />}}

### Node machine type 
First you need to choose a machine type for your nodes. 
You can list machine types available for you with the following command:
```bash
gcloud compute machine-types list --zone={ZONE}
```
For this tutorial, we will use `e2-medium` which is a 2 vCPU and 4GB RAM machine.
{{< alert context="info" text="You have a quota of machine when using free credit, don't choose high end machines. You'll get an explicit error if you do so" />}}

### Création du fichier de credentials
The terraform provider needs credentials to access your GCP account. For this example we will use the built-in method in gcloud SDK to generate a credentials file.
```bash
gcloud auth application-default login
```
It will open a browser window, select your account and click on "Allow". Then, you can close the browser window.